README.md, before:

# 🎯 Minesweeper MVP

> **Created by [Kyros Koh](https://github.com/kyroskoh)**

A modern, fully-featured Minesweeper game built with Next.js 15, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. Features include match time tracking, persistent game states, high scores, and a classic color-coded number system.

## ✨ Features

### 🎮 Core Gameplay
- **Classic Minesweeper Mechanics**: Left-click to reveal, right-click to flag
- **Mobile-Friendly Controls**: "Place Flags" toggle button for smartphones/tablets
- **Long Press to Flag**: Hold down on a cell to quickly place a flag (mobile & desktop)
- **Three Difficulty Levels**: Beginner (9×9, 10 mines), Intermediate (16×16, 40 mines), Expert (30×16, 99 mines)
- **Smart Mine Placement**: Uses seeded random generation for consistent testing
- **Flood Fill Algorithm**: Auto-reveals connected empty cells
- **Win/Loss Detection**: Automatic game state management
- **Highlighted Triggered Mine**: Yellow background shows which mine caused the game to end

### 🏆 High Score System
- **Top 10 Leaderboards**: Separate high score tables for each difficulty level
- **Persistent Scores**: High scores saved to localStorage
- **Player Names**: Enter your name when you achieve a high score with automatic input focus
- **Sorted Rankings**: Automatically sorts by fastest completion time
- **Tabbed Interface**: Easy navigation between difficulty leaderboards
- **Accessible Design**: High-contrast UI with proper color schemes for readability

### ⏱️ Advanced Timing System
- **Precise Match Timing**: Millisecond-accurate timer with pause/resume functionality
- **Formatted Display**: Shows time in MM:SS format with detailed HH:MM:SS option
- **Persistent Timing**: Timer state survives page refreshes
- **Auto-Resume**: Timer automatically resumes when user interacts with paused game

### 🎨 Enhanced UI/UX
- **Classic Color Scheme**: Traditional Minesweeper number colors (1=Blue, 2=Green, 3=Red, etc.)
- **3D Cell Effects**: Realistic button appearance with inset shadows
- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Mobile Touch Controls**: Dedicated bomb placement mode with visual indicators
- **Real-time Updates**: Live mine counter and timer display
- **Visual Feedback**: Hover effects, smooth transitions, and mode-specific styling

### 💾 State Management
- **Auto-save**: Game automatically saves to localStorage
- **Resume Functionality**: Pick up exactly where you left off
- **Difficulty Persistence**: Remembers your preferred difficulty level
- **Context-based Architecture**: Clean separation of game logic and UI
- **Mobile State Tracking**: Persistent bomb placement mode for touch devices

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ (tested with v24.8.0)
- npm 8+ (tested with v11.6.0)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd minesweeper-mvp

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm start
```

Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to play the game.

### 🛠️ Build & Production

The project has been optimized for production deployment:

- ✅ **Production Build**: Fully tested and working
- ✅ **Static Generation**: All pages pre-rendered for optimal performance
- ✅ **Type Safety**: Strict TypeScript compilation passes
- ✅ **Bundle Optimization**: Minimal JavaScript payload (6.94 kB main route)
- ✅ **Dependencies**: All required packages including `critters` for CSS optimization

### 🐳 Docker Setup

The application includes comprehensive Docker support for both development and production environments.

#### Quick Start with Docker

```bash
# Production environment
npm run docker:prod

# Development environment with hot reload
npm run docker:dev

# Stop containers
npm run docker:stop
```

#### Manual Docker Commands

```bash
# Build production image
docker build -t minesweeper-mvp .

# Run production container
docker run -p 3001:3001 minesweeper-mvp

# Using Docker Compose for production
docker-compose up --build -d

# Using Docker Compose for development
docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --build
```

#### Docker Features
- **Multi-stage builds** for optimized production images
- **Health checks** for container monitoring
- **Non-root user** for security
- **Volume mounts** for persistent data
- **Development mode** with hot reload
- **Optimized caching** for faster builds

### Available Scripts

```bash
# Development
npm run dev          # Start development server with Turbopack
npm run build        # Build for production
npm start           # Start production server

# Testing
npm test            # Run all tests
npm run test:watch  # Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:coverage # Generate coverage report

# Code Quality
npm run lint        # Run ESLint

# Docker
npm run docker:build # Build production Docker image
npm run docker:run   # Run production container
npm run docker:dev   # Start development environment
npm run docker:prod  # Start production environment
npm run docker:stop  # Stop all containers
npm run docker:clean # Clean up Docker resources
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router
│   └── page.tsx           # Main game page
├── components/            # React components
│   ├── demo/             # Demo components
│   └── game/             # Core game UI components
│       ├── HighScoreButton.tsx  # High score access button
│       └── HighScoreModal.tsx   # High score display modal
├── contexts/             # React Context providers
│   ├── GameContext.tsx   # Main game state management
│   ├── GameContext.types.ts
│   └── GameContext.reducer.ts
├── hooks/                # Custom React hooks
│   └── useTimer.ts       # Timer-specific hooks
├── lib/                  # Core game logic
│   ├── minesweeper/      # Game engine
│   │   ├── Board.ts      # Board logic and mine placement
│   │   ├── Game.ts       # Game state management
│   │   ├── Timer.ts      # Precision timing system
│   │   └── types.ts      # TypeScript definitions
│   ├── scores/           # High score management
│   │   └── HighScoreManager.ts # High score tracking system
│   └── storage/          # Persistence layer
│       └── localStorage.ts
└── __tests__/            # Test suites
    ├── contexts/         # Context tests
    └── lib/minesweeper/  # Engine tests
```

### Core Components

#### Game Engine (`src/lib/minesweeper/`)
- **Board.ts**: Pure logic for mine placement, flood fill, and win detection
- **Game.ts**: High-level game state management and timer integration
- **Timer.ts**: Precision timing with pause/resume and formatting utilities
- **types.ts**: Comprehensive TypeScript definitions

#### High Score System (`src/lib/scores/`)
- **HighScoreManager.ts**: Manages top 10 scores for each difficulty level
- **Score Interface**: Tracks player name, time, difficulty, and date

#### React Layer (`src/contexts/`, `src/hooks/`)
- **GameContext**: Central state management using useReducer pattern
- **Custom Hooks**: Specialized hooks for timer and game statistics
- **Persistence**: Automatic localStorage integration with error handling

#### UI Components (`src/components/`)
- **MinesweeperCell**: Enhanced cell component with classic styling and mobile mode support
- **GameBoard**: Responsive game board with proper event handling
- **PlaceFlagButton**: Mobile-friendly toggle button with accessibility features
- **HighScoreModal**: Tabbed interface for viewing high scores by difficulty with accessible design
- **HighScoreButton**: Button to access the high score leaderboard
- **Demo Components**: Full-featured game interface with responsive mobile controls

## 🧪 Testing

Comprehensive test suite with 60+ tests covering:

- **Unit Tests**: Game engine logic (Board, Game, Timer)
- **Integration Tests**: React context and state management
- **Coverage**: >95% code coverage on core game logic
- **Mocking**: Date.now() mocking for consistent timer tests

```bash
# Run specific test suites
npm test Board.test.ts      # Board logic tests
npm test Game.test.ts       # Game management tests
npm test Timer.test.ts      # Timing system tests
npm test GameContext        # React context tests
```

## 📱 Mobile Controls

### Touch-Friendly Interface
The game includes multiple ways to interact on mobile devices:

- **Reveal Mode** (🔍): Default mode - tap cells to reveal them
- **Place Flags Mode** (🚩): Toggle mode - tap cells to flag/unflag them
- **Long Press**: Hold down on any cell for 500ms to place a flag, regardless of mode
- **Visual Indicators**: Cells show orange ring highlights in flag placement mode
- **Responsive Design**: Button size and position optimized for different screen sizes

### Mobile Usage
1. **Tap the toggle button** to switch between reveal and flag placement modes
2. **In Reveal Mode**: Tap cells to reveal them (normal gameplay)
3. **In Flag Placement Mode**: Tap cells to place/remove flags
4. **Long Press**: Hold on any cell to quickly place a flag without switching modes
5. **Visual Feedback**: Active mode is clearly indicated with colors and icons

## 🏆 High Score System

### Features
- **Separate Leaderboards**: Individual top 10 lists for Beginner, Intermediate, and Expert difficulties
- **Persistent Storage**: High scores saved to localStorage
- **Player Recognition**: Enter your name when achieving a high score with automatic input focus
- **Time-based Ranking**: Sorted by fastest completion time
- **Date Tracking**: Records when each high score was achieved
- **Accessible Design**: High-contrast colors and clear visual hierarchy for better readability

### How It Works
1. Win a game to check if your time qualifies for the high score list
2. If you achieve a high score, the input field automatically focuses for you to enter your name
3. View the high score lists anytime by clicking the "High Scores" button
4. Navigate between difficulty levels using the tabs in the high score modal

## 🎯 Game Rules

### How to Play
1. **Left-click** any cell to reveal it (or tap in reveal mode on mobile)
2. **Right-click** to flag/unflag suspected mines (or use flag placement mode on mobile)
3. **Long press** on any cell to quickly place a flag (mobile & desktop)
4. **Numbers** show how many mines are adjacent to that cell
5. **Objective**: Reveal all non-mine cells without clicking on any mines
6. **Timer** starts on your first move and automatically resumes if paused

### Number Color System
- **1**: Blue - Easiest to spot, usually safe areas
- **2**: Green - Common in mid-game areas
- **3**: Red - Moderate complexity
- **4**: Purple - Higher complexity areas
- **5**: Brown - Dense mine areas
- **6**: Pink - Very dense areas (rare)
- **7**: Black - Extremely dense (very rare)
- **8**: Gray - Maximum density (extremely rare)

## 🔧 Technical Details

### Technology Stack
- **Framework**: Next.js 15.5.3 with App Router
- **Language**: TypeScript 5.x with strict mode
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS 4.x with custom components
- **State Management**: React Context + useReducer pattern
- **Testing**: Jest 30.x + React Testing Library
- **Build Tool**: Turbopack for fast development

### Performance Optimizations
- **Memoization**: useCallback and React.memo where appropriate
- **Efficient Rendering**: Minimal re-renders through careful state design
- **Lazy Loading**: Components loaded only when needed
- **Local Storage**: Efficient serialization and error handling

### Browser Support
- **Modern Browsers**: Chrome 90+, Firefox 88+, Safari 14+, Edge 90+
- **Mobile Support**: iOS Safari 14+, Chrome Mobile 90+
- **Features Used**: ES2017+, CSS Grid, localStorage, Context API

## 🚧 Upcoming Features

### High Priority
- [x] **Mobile Controls**: Touch-friendly bomb placement toggle (COMPLETED)
- [x] **High Score System**: Top 10 high scores for each difficulty level (COMPLETED)
- [x] **Long Press to Flag**: Hold down on cells to quickly place flags (COMPLETED)
- [x] **Triggered Mine Highlight**: Show which mine caused the game to end (COMPLETED)
- [ ] **API Routes**: RESTful endpoints for score management
- [ ] **Database Migration**: Scripts for localStorage → SQLite → SQL/NoSQL

### Medium Priority
- [ ] **Animations**: D3.js cell reveal effects, Three.js win celebrations
- [ ] **Enhanced Mobile Features**: Gesture recognition
- [ ] **PWA Features**: Offline play, install prompts
- [ ] **Dark Mode**: Theme switching with Tailwind

### Future Enhancements
- [ ] **Custom Difficulties**: User-defined board sizes and mine counts
- [ ] **Statistics**: Win rate, average times, streak tracking
- [ ] **Sound Effects**: Optional audio feedback
- [ ] **Multiplayer**: Real-time competitive modes

## 🤝 Contributing

### Development Setup
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Make your changes and add tests
4. Ensure all tests pass: `npm test`
5. Commit with clear messages: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
6. Push and create a Pull Request

### Code Standards
- **TypeScript**: Strict mode enabled, no `any` types
- **Testing**: All new features require tests
- **ESLint**: Follow the existing configuration
- **Commits**: Use conventional commit messages

## 🚑 Troubleshooting

### Build Issues

If you encounter build errors, try the following:

```bash
# Clear Next.js cache and node_modules
rm -rf .next node_modules package-lock.json
npm install
npm run build
```

**Common Issues:**
- **"Cannot find module 'critters'"**: Fixed by installing the `critters` dependency
- **Experimental features causing build failures**: The `optimizeCss` experimental feature has been disabled for stability
- **TypeScript compilation errors**: Ensure all imports are correctly typed and files exist
- **Docker build fails with "Cannot find module '@/...'"**: The `.dockerignore` file was excluding `tsconfig.json`, preventing TypeScript path mapping resolution in Docker builds. Fixed by allowing `tsconfig.json` in Docker context.

### Docker Issues

If Docker builds fail with module resolution errors:

```bash
# Ensure these files are NOT excluded in .dockerignore:
# tsconfig.json       # Required for TypeScript path mapping
# next.config.ts      # Required for Next.js configuration
# src/                # Required for source code

# Rebuild without cache if needed
docker build --no-cache -t minesweeper-mvp .

# Check if container runs properly
docker run -p 3001:3001 minesweeper-mvp
```

**Path Mapping Requirements:**
- `tsconfig.json` must include `"@/*": ["./src/*"]` in paths
- `next.config.ts` must include webpack alias configuration
- Both files must be available in the Docker build context

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Kyros Koh**
- GitHub: [@kyroskoh](https://github.com/kyroskoh)
- Email: me@kyroskoh.com
- Portfolio: [kyroskoh.com](https://kyroskoh.com)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Inspired by the classic Windows Minesweeper
- Built with modern web technologies while preserving the classic gameplay
- Special thanks to the Next.js and React communities
- Created with passion for clean code and classic gaming experiences

---

**Enjoy playing Minesweeper! 🎮💣**

*Built with ❤️ by Kyros Koh*

Commit message:

fix(highscore): resolve player name submission issues
- Fix issue where player names weren't being properly saved when submitting high scores
- Add validation to prevent empty name submissions in high score form
- Ensure Enter key properly submits the high score form
- Enhance name input field with better validation and error messages
- Fix the fallback to 'Anonymous' only when truly needed
- Update README and CHANGELOG to document the improvements

This change ensures that when users enter their name for a high score,
it's properly saved rather than defaulting to 'Anonymous'.

README.md, after:

# 🎯 Minesweeper MVP

> **Created by [Kyros Koh](https://github.com/kyroskoh)**

A modern, fully-featured Minesweeper game built with Next.js 15, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. Features include match time tracking, persistent game states, high scores, and a classic color-coded number system.

## ✨ Features

### 🎮 Core Gameplay
- **Classic Minesweeper Mechanics**: Left-click to reveal, right-click to flag
- **Mobile-Friendly Controls**: "Place Flags" toggle button for smartphones/tablets
- **Long Press to Flag**: Hold down on a cell to quickly place a flag (mobile & desktop)
- **Three Difficulty Levels**: Beginner (9×9, 10 mines), Intermediate (16×16, 40 mines), Expert (30×16, 99 mines)
- **Smart Mine Placement**: Uses seeded random generation for consistent testing
- **Flood Fill Algorithm**: Auto-reveals connected empty cells
- **Win/Loss Detection**: Automatic game state management
- **Highlighted Triggered Mine**: Yellow background shows which mine caused the game to end

### 🏆 High Score System
- **Top 10 Leaderboards**: Separate high score tables for each difficulty level
- **Persistent Scores**: High scores saved to localStorage
- **Player Names**: Enter your name when you achieve a high score with automatic input focus
- **Name Validation**: Prevents empty submissions and provides clear feedback
- **Keyboard Support**: Press Enter to submit your name for high scores
- **Sorted Rankings**: Automatically sorts by fastest completion time
- **Tabbed Interface**: Easy navigation between difficulty leaderboards
- **Accessible Design**: High-contrast UI with proper color schemes for readability

### ⏱️ Advanced Timing System
- **Precise Match Timing**: Millisecond-accurate timer with pause/resume functionality
- **Formatted Display**: Shows time in MM:SS format with detailed HH:MM:SS option
- **Persistent Timing**: Timer state survives page refreshes
- **Auto-Resume**: Timer automatically resumes when user interacts with paused game

### 🎨 Enhanced UI/UX
- **Classic Color Scheme**: Traditional Minesweeper number colors (1=Blue, 2=Green, 3=Red, etc.)
- **3D Cell Effects**: Realistic button appearance with inset shadows
- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices
- **Mobile Touch Controls**: Dedicated bomb placement mode with visual indicators
- **Real-time Updates**: Live mine counter and timer display
- **Visual Feedback**: Hover effects, smooth transitions, and mode-specific styling

### 💾 State Management
- **Auto-save**: Game automatically saves to localStorage
- **Resume Functionality**: Pick up exactly where you left off
- **Difficulty Persistence**: Remembers your preferred difficulty level
- **Context-based Architecture**: Clean separation of game logic and UI
- **Mobile State Tracking**: Persistent bomb placement mode for touch devices

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ (tested with v24.8.0)
- npm 8+ (tested with v11.6.0)

### Installation

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone <repository-url>
cd minesweeper-mvp

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Run development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm start
```

Open [http://localhost:3001](http://localhost:3001) to play the game.

### 🛠️ Build & Production

The project has been optimized for production deployment:

- ✅ **Production Build**: Fully tested and working
- ✅ **Static Generation**: All pages pre-rendered for optimal performance
- ✅ **Type Safety**: Strict TypeScript compilation passes
- ✅ **Bundle Optimization**: Minimal JavaScript payload (6.94 kB main route)
- ✅ **Dependencies**: All required packages including `critters` for CSS optimization

### 🐳 Docker Setup

The application includes comprehensive Docker support for both development and production environments.

#### Quick Start with Docker

```bash
# Production environment
npm run docker:prod

# Development environment with hot reload
npm run docker:dev

# Stop containers
npm run docker:stop
```

#### Manual Docker Commands

```bash
# Build production image
docker build -t minesweeper-mvp .

# Run production container
docker run -p 3001:3001 minesweeper-mvp

# Using Docker Compose for production
docker-compose up --build -d

# Using Docker Compose for development
docker-compose -f docker-compose.dev.yml up --build
```

#### Docker Features
- **Multi-stage builds** for optimized production images
- **Health checks** for container monitoring
- **Non-root user** for security
- **Volume mounts** for persistent data
- **Development mode** with hot reload
- **Optimized caching** for faster builds

### Available Scripts

```bash
# Development
npm run dev          # Start development server with Turbopack
npm run build        # Build for production
npm start           # Start production server

# Testing
npm test            # Run all tests
npm run test:watch  # Run tests in watch mode
npm run test:coverage # Generate coverage report

# Code Quality
npm run lint        # Run ESLint

# Docker
npm run docker:build # Build production Docker image
npm run docker:run   # Run production container
npm run docker:dev   # Start development environment
npm run docker:prod  # Start production environment
npm run docker:stop  # Stop all containers
npm run docker:clean # Clean up Docker resources
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Project Structure
```
src/
├── app/                    # Next.js App Router
│   └── page.tsx           # Main game page
├── components/            # React components
│   ├── demo/             # Demo components
│   └── game/             # Core game UI components
│       ├── HighScoreButton.tsx  # High score access button
│       └── HighScoreModal.tsx   # High score display modal
├── contexts/             # React Context providers
│   ├── GameContext.tsx   # Main game state management
│   ├── GameContext.types.ts
│   └── GameContext.reducer.ts
├── hooks/                # Custom React hooks
│   └── useTimer.ts       # Timer-specific hooks
├── lib/                  # Core game logic
│   ├── minesweeper/      # Game engine
│   │   ├── Board.ts      # Board logic and mine placement
│   │   ├── Game.ts       # Game state management
│   │   ├── Timer.ts      # Precision timing system
│   │   └── types.ts      # TypeScript definitions
│   ├── scores/           # High score management
│   │   └── HighScoreManager.ts # High score tracking system
│   └── storage/          # Persistence layer
│       └── localStorage.ts
└── __tests__/            # Test suites
    ├── contexts/         # Context tests
    └── lib/minesweeper/  # Engine tests
```

### Core Components

#### Game Engine (`src/lib/minesweeper/`)
- **Board.ts**: Pure logic for mine placement, flood fill, and win detection
- **Game.ts**: High-level game state management and timer integration
- **Timer.ts**: Precision timing with pause/resume and formatting utilities
- **types.ts**: Comprehensive TypeScript definitions

#### High Score System (`src/lib/scores/`)
- **HighScoreManager.ts**: Manages top 10 scores for each difficulty level
- **Score Interface**: Tracks player name, time, difficulty, and date

#### React Layer (`src/contexts/`, `src/hooks/`)
- **GameContext**: Central state management using useReducer pattern
- **Custom Hooks**: Specialized hooks for timer and game statistics
- **Persistence**: Automatic localStorage integration with error handling

#### UI Components (`src/components/`)
- **MinesweeperCell**: Enhanced cell component with classic styling and mobile mode support
- **GameBoard**: Responsive game board with proper event handling
- **PlaceFlagButton**: Mobile-friendly toggle button with accessibility features
- **HighScoreModal**: Tabbed interface for viewing high scores by difficulty with accessible design
- **HighScoreButton**: Button to access the high score leaderboard
- **Demo Components**: Full-featured game interface with responsive mobile controls

## 🧪 Testing

Comprehensive test suite with 60+ tests covering:

- **Unit Tests**: Game engine logic (Board, Game, Timer)
- **Integration Tests**: React context and state management
- **Coverage**: >95% code coverage on core game logic
- **Mocking**: Date.now() mocking for consistent timer tests

```bash
# Run specific test suites
npm test Board.test.ts      # Board logic tests
npm test Game.test.ts       # Game management tests
npm test Timer.test.ts      # Timing system tests
npm test GameContext        # React context tests
```

## 📱 Mobile Controls

### Touch-Friendly Interface
The game includes multiple ways to interact on mobile devices:

- **Reveal Mode** (🔍): Default mode - tap cells to reveal them
- **Place Flags Mode** (🚩): Toggle mode - tap cells to flag/unflag them
- **Long Press**: Hold down on any cell for 500ms to place a flag, regardless of mode
- **Visual Indicators**: Cells show orange ring highlights in flag placement mode
- **Responsive Design**: Button size and position optimized for different screen sizes

### Mobile Usage
1. **Tap the toggle button** to switch between reveal and flag placement modes
2. **In Reveal Mode**: Tap cells to reveal them (normal gameplay)
3. **In Flag Placement Mode**: Tap cells to place/remove flags
4. **Long Press**: Hold on any cell to quickly place a flag without switching modes
5. **Visual Feedback**: Active mode is clearly indicated with colors and icons

## 🏆 High Score System

### Features
- **Separate Leaderboards**: Individual top 10 lists for Beginner, Intermediate, and Expert difficulties
- **Persistent Storage**: High scores saved to localStorage
- **Player Recognition**: Enter your name when achieving a high score with automatic input focus
- **Name Validation**: Prevents empty submissions and provides clear feedback
- **Keyboard Support**: Press Enter to submit your name for high scores
- **Time-based Ranking**: Sorted by fastest completion time
- **Date Tracking**: Records when each high score was achieved
- **Accessible Design**: High-contrast colors and clear visual hierarchy for better readability

### How It Works
1. Win a game to check if your time qualifies for the high score list
2. If you achieve a high score, the input field automatically focuses for you to enter your name
3. Type your name and press Enter or click Save to submit your score
4. View the high score lists anytime by clicking the "High Scores" button
5. Navigate between difficulty levels using the tabs in the high score modal

## 🎯 Game Rules

### How to Play
1. **Left-click** any cell to reveal it (or tap in reveal mode on mobile)
2. **Right-click** to flag/unflag suspected mines (or use flag placement mode on mobile)
3. **Long press** on any cell to quickly place a flag (mobile & desktop)
4. **Numbers** show how many mines are adjacent to that cell
5. **Objective**: Reveal all non-mine cells without clicking on any mines
6. **Timer** starts on your first move and automatically resumes if paused

### Number Color System
- **1**: Blue - Easiest to spot, usually safe areas
- **2**: Green - Common in mid-game areas
- **3**: Red - Moderate complexity
- **4**: Purple - Higher complexity areas
- **5**: Brown - Dense mine areas
- **6**: Pink - Very dense areas (rare)
- **7**: Black - Extremely dense (very rare)
- **8**: Gray - Maximum density (extremely rare)

## 🔧 Technical Details

### Technology Stack
- **Framework**: Next.js 15.5.3 with App Router
- **Language**: TypeScript 5.x with strict mode
- **Styling**: Tailwind CSS 4.x with custom components
- **State Management**: React Context + useReducer pattern
- **Testing**: Jest 30.x + React Testing Library
- **Build Tool**: Turbopack for fast development

### Performance Optimizations
- **Memoization**: useCallback and React.memo where appropriate
- **Efficient Rendering**: Minimal re-renders through careful state design
- **Lazy Loading**: Components loaded only when needed
- **Local Storage**: Efficient serialization and error handling

### Browser Support
- **Modern Browsers**: Chrome 90+, Firefox 88+, Safari 14+, Edge 90+
- **Mobile Support**: iOS Safari 14+, Chrome Mobile 90+
- **Features Used**: ES2017+, CSS Grid, localStorage, Context API

## 🚧 Upcoming Features

### High Priority
- [x] **Mobile Controls**: Touch-friendly bomb placement toggle (COMPLETED)
- [x] **High Score System**: Top 10 high scores for each difficulty level (COMPLETED)
- [x] **Long Press to Flag**: Hold down on cells to quickly place flags (COMPLETED)
- [x] **Triggered Mine Highlight**: Show which mine caused the game to end (COMPLETED)
- [ ] **API Routes**: RESTful endpoints for score management
- [ ] **Database Migration**: Scripts for localStorage → SQLite → SQL/NoSQL

### Medium Priority
- [ ] **Animations**: D3.js cell reveal effects, Three.js win celebrations
- [ ] **Enhanced Mobile Features**: Gesture recognition
- [ ] **PWA Features**: Offline play, install prompts
- [ ] **Dark Mode**: Theme switching with Tailwind

### Future Enhancements
- [ ] **Custom Difficulties**: User-defined board sizes and mine counts
- [ ] **Statistics**: Win rate, average times, streak tracking
- [ ] **Sound Effects**: Optional audio feedback
- [ ] **Multiplayer**: Real-time competitive modes

## 🤝 Contributing

### Development Setup
1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Make your changes and add tests
4. Ensure all tests pass: `npm test`
5. Commit with clear messages: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
6. Push and create a Pull Request

### Code Standards
- **TypeScript**: Strict mode enabled, no `any` types
- **Testing**: All new features require tests
- **ESLint**: Follow the existing configuration
- **Commits**: Use conventional commit messages

## 🚑 Troubleshooting

### Build Issues

If you encounter build errors, try the following:

```bash
# Clear Next.js cache and node_modules
rm -rf .next node_modules package-lock.json
npm install
npm run build
```

**Common Issues:**
- **"Cannot find module 'critters'"**: Fixed by installing the `critters` dependency
- **Experimental features causing build failures**: The `optimizeCss` experimental feature has been disabled for stability
- **TypeScript compilation errors**: Ensure all imports are correctly typed and files exist
- **Docker build fails with "Cannot find module '@/...'"**: The `.dockerignore` file was excluding `tsconfig.json`, preventing TypeScript path mapping resolution in Docker builds. Fixed by allowing `tsconfig.json` in Docker context.

### Docker Issues

If Docker builds fail with module resolution errors:

```bash
# Ensure these files are NOT excluded in .dockerignore:
# tsconfig.json       # Required for TypeScript path mapping
# next.config.ts      # Required for Next.js configuration
# src/                # Required for source code

# Rebuild without cache if needed
docker build --no-cache -t minesweeper-mvp .

# Check if container runs properly
docker run -p 3001:3001 minesweeper-mvp
```

**Path Mapping Requirements:**
- `tsconfig.json` must include `"@/*": ["./src/*"]` in paths
- `next.config.ts` must include webpack alias configuration
- Both files must be available in the Docker build context

## 📄 License

MIT License - see LICENSE file for details.

## 👨‍💻 Author

**Kyros Koh**
- GitHub: [@kyroskoh](https://github.com/kyroskoh)
- Email: me@kyroskoh.com
- Portfolio: [kyroskoh.com](https://kyroskoh.com)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- Inspired by the classic Windows Minesweeper
- Built with modern web technologies while preserving the classic gameplay
- Special thanks to the Next.js and React communities
- Created with passion for clean code and classic gaming experiences

---

**Enjoy playing Minesweeper! 🎮💣**

*Built with ❤️ by Kyros Koh*
